content/pages/projects/clayto.md, before:

Title: clayto.com
Slug: projects/clayto.com
Status: hidden

[clayto.com][1] is my homemade photography website.

![mwcz.org screenshot]({filename}/static/images/projects/screenshot_clayto.png "clayto.com screenshot")

I've run a photography site in some fashion since 2003.  Inspired by the
photography presentation ideas of [Noah Grey's][6] photography site, the site's color scheme always matches the photo being viewed, as Noah did (or used to!).

Here are four examples of the color schemes

![example of color theme matching images]({filename}/static/images/projects/screenshot_clayto_palettes_small.png "example of color theme matching images")

Images [1][9], [2][10], [3][11], [4][12].

The site as it exists now was written in 2007-2008, as my first Django project.
It needs some serious TLC in the form of bringing it into the twenty-tens with
a responsive UI, [ColorPal][8] integration, visual redesign, and a Django
upgrade.

The site is currently powered by:

 - **[Python][2]** - a comedy troupe
 - **[Django][3]** - Python web development framework
 - **[960.gs][4]** - a vintage but groundbreakingatthetime CSS grid ;)
 - **[Piwik][5]** - open-source web analytics
 - and a custom color extraction algorithm that automatically suggests colors,
   then allows the user to tweak the colors to their liking

The code is [available here][7]

[1]: http://clayto.com/ "My photography site"
[2]: http://python.org/ "Python's website"
[3]: https://www.djangoproject.com/ "Django, a Python web framework"
[4]: http://960.gs/ "960gs CSS grid"
[5]: http://piwik.org/ "Piwik web analytics tool"
[6]: http://noahgrey.com/ "Noah Grey's photography site"
[7]: https://github.com/mwcz/phyton "clayto.com's source code"
[8]: http://colorpal.org/ "ColorPal"
[9]: http://clayto.com/photo/new-leaves "Leaves photograph"
[10]: http://clayto.com/photo/survivors "Tiger photograph"
[11]: http://clayto.com/photo/tarsi "Dragonfly photograph"
[12]: http://clayto.com/photo/set-sail "Tent photograph"

Commit message:

update clayto.com project page

content/pages/projects/clayto.md, after:

Title: clayto.com
Slug: projects/clayto.com
Status: hidden

[clayto.com][1] is my homemade photography website.

![mwcz.org screenshot]({filename}/static/images/projects/screenshot_clayto.png "clayto.com screenshot")

I started clayto.com in 2003.  Inspired by [Noah Grey's][6] photography
presentation ideas, the site's color scheme always matches the photo being
viewed, as Noah did (or used to!).

Here are four examples of the color schemes:

![example of color theme matching images]({filename}/static/images/projects/screenshot_clayto_palettes_small.png "example of color theme matching images")

Images [1][9], [2][10], [3][11], [4][12].

The color schemes are automatically generated when a photo is posted.  A
"suggested palette" is displayed, along with a color picker, and a tool to
sample colors directly from the image.

The site as it exists now was written in 2007-2008, as my first Django project.
It needs some serious TLC in the form of bringing it into the twenty-tens with
a responsive UI, [ColorPal][8] integration, visual redesign, and a Django
upgrade.

The site is currently powered by:

 - **[Python][2]** - a comedy troupe
 - **[Django][3]** - Python web development framework
 - **[960.gs][4]** - a vintage but groundbreakingatthetime CSS grid ;)
 - **[Piwik][5]** - open-source web analytics
 - and a custom color extraction algorithm that automatically suggests colors,
   then allows the user to tweak the colors to their liking

The code is [available here][7]

[1]: http://clayto.com/ "My photography site"
[2]: http://python.org/ "Python's website"
[3]: https://www.djangoproject.com/ "Django, a Python web framework"
[4]: http://960.gs/ "960gs CSS grid"
[5]: http://piwik.org/ "Piwik web analytics tool"
[6]: http://noahgrey.com/ "Noah Grey's photography site"
[7]: https://github.com/mwcz/phyton "clayto.com's source code"
[8]: http://colorpal.org/ "ColorPal"
[9]: http://clayto.com/photo/new-leaves "Leaves photograph"
[10]: http://clayto.com/photo/survivors "Tiger photograph"
[11]: http://clayto.com/photo/tarsi "Dragonfly photograph"
[12]: http://clayto.com/photo/set-sail "Tent photograph"
