content/posts/050 - visualizing machine learning with webgl/050.md, before:

Title: Visualizing Machine Learning with WebGL
Date: 2018-03-14
Tags: programming, javascript, threejs, webgl, 3d, web, redhat, redhat-summit, machine-learning
Summary: Building a WebGL particle system to visualize machine learning.
Image: /2017/10/12/noiseecho-cancellation-in-fedora-26/after.jpg
Gallery: 050
Mwc: 50
Status: draft

Things to cover:

 - the story, context of the demo (not experts, viz tells story, not for nitpickers)
 - decomposing images into pixel cloud
 - getting input from Infinispan/JDG and Gluster (via microservice B)
 - GPU-based movement algorithm, CPU only for timer, achieving uniform velocity
 - the 'path tracer' tool to more easily encode paths
 - layered pipes setup, link to andres and matt (show angled cutaway of the images, can probably make it with inkscape perspective tool: http://goinkscape.com/using-perspective-for-3d-in-inkscape/ )
 - 3542x1144 LED screen

https://giphy.com/gifs/oVlpIBxwuheE

Thanks:
 - Andres Galante
 - Matthew Carleton
 - Kyle Buchanan
 - Burr Sutter
 - Galder Zamarreno

Commit message:

add performance note about keynote canvas

content/posts/050 - visualizing machine learning with webgl/050.md, after:

Title: Visualizing Machine Learning with WebGL
Date: 2018-03-14
Tags: programming, javascript, threejs, webgl, 3d, web, redhat, redhat-summit, machine-learning
Summary: Building a WebGL particle system to visualize machine learning.
Image: /2017/10/12/noiseecho-cancellation-in-fedora-26/after.jpg
Gallery: 050
Mwc: 50
Status: draft

Things to cover:

 - the story, context of the demo (not experts, viz tells story, not for nitpickers)
 - decomposing images into pixel cloud
 - getting input from Infinispan/JDG and Gluster (via microservice B)
 - GPU-based movement algorithm, CPU only for timer, achieving uniform velocity
 - the 'path tracer' tool to more easily encode paths
 - layered pipes setup, link to andres and matt (show angled cutaway of the images, can probably make it with inkscape perspective tool: http://goinkscape.com/using-perspective-for-3d-in-inkscape/ )
 - 3542x1144 LED screen
 - improving performance by shrinking then scaling up the webgl canvas

https://giphy.com/gifs/oVlpIBxwuheE

Thanks:
 - Andres Galante
 - Matthew Carleton
 - Kyle Buchanan
 - Burr Sutter
 - Galder Zamarreno
